feat: add documentation for azure pg auth (#2639)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/gateway/azure-pg-authentication-with-azure-app-service-principal.md

---
title: "Connect a {{site.base_gateway}} Azure PostgreSQL Server using Azure Service Principal"
content_type: reference
layout: reference

breadcrumbs:
  - /gateway/
products:
    - gateway

tags:
  - azure

min_version:
    gateway: '3.12'

description: "Learn how to use Azure Service Principal authentication to connect to the Azure PostgreSQL Server that you use for {{site.base_gateway}}"

related_resources:
  - text: "Install {{site.base_gateway}}"
    url: /gateway/install/
  - text: "Connect a {{site.base_gateway}} Azure PostgreSQL Server using Azure Managed Identity"
    url: /gateway/azure-pg-authentication-with-azure-managed-identity/
  - text: "{{site.base_gateway}} Amazon RDS database authentication with AWS IAM"
    url: /gateway/amazon-rds-authentication-with-aws-iam/

search_aliases:
  - Entra

works_on:
  - on-prem
faqs:
  - q: "How do I fix the `failed to initialize Azure client: no authentication mechanism worked for azure` error?"
    a: |

>       Try run kong command with `--vv` parameter to show the debug log. You'll see the reason why the Azure authentication failed, for example the following log shows an error when authenticating with Managed Identity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Try running the {{site.base_gateway}} command with the `--vv` parameter to show the debug log. You'll see the reason why the Azure authentication failed. For example the following log shows an error when authenticating with Managed Identity:
```

export KONG_PG_RO_USER=my-application

export KONG_PG_RO_AZURE_AUTH=on
export KONG_PG_RO_AZURE_CLIENT_ID=UUID-APPLICATION-ID
export KONG_PG_RO_AZURE_TENANT_ID=UUID-TENANT-ID
export KONG_PG_RO_AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=my-secret-value
```

{% endnavtab %}

{% navtab "Configuration file" %}

To configure a read-write database using the [kong.conf file](/gateway/manage-kong-conf/), use the following example: 
```bash
# Basic database configuration
database = postgres
pg_host = your-server.postgres.database.azure.com
pg_port = 5432
pg_database = kong
pg_user = my-application

pg_azure_auth = on
pg_azure_client_id = UUID-APPLICATION-ID
pg_azure_tenant_id = UUID-TENANT-ID
pg_azure_client_secret = my-secret-value
```

To configure a read-only database using the [kong.conf file](/gateway/manage-kong-conf/), use the following example: 
```bash
# Read-only database configuration
pg_ro_host = your-ro-server.postgres.database.azure.com
pg_ro_port = 5432
pg_ro_database = kong
pg_ro_user = my-application

pg_ro_azure_auth = on
pg_ro_azure_client_id = UUID-APPLICATION-ID
pg_ro_azure_tenant_id = UUID-TENANT-ID
pg_ro_azure_client_secret = my-secret-value
```

{% endnavtab %}

{% endnavtabs %}

> ## Azure PostgreSQL Server configuration parameters
> 
> The following table describes the different configuration parameters you can set when configuring Azure Service Principal authentication to connect to the Azure PostgreSQL Server:
> 
> <!--vale off-->
> {% kong_config_table %}
> config:
>   - name: pg_azure_auth
>   - name: pg_azure_tenant_id
>   - name: pg_azure_client_id
>   - name: pg_azure_client_secret
>   - name: pg_ro_azure_auth
>   - name: pg_ro_azure_tenant_id
>   - name: pg_ro_azure_client_id
>   - name: pg_ro_azure_client_secret
> {% endkong_config_table %}
> <!--vale on-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Azure PostgreSQL Server configuration parameters

The following table describes the different configuration parameters you can set when configuring Azure Service Principal authentication to connect to the Azure PostgreSQL Server:

<!--vale off-->
{% kong_config_table %}
config:
  - name: pg_azure_auth
  - name: pg_azure_tenant_id
  - name: pg_azure_client_id
  - name: pg_azure_client_secret
  - name: pg_ro_azure_auth
  - name: pg_ro_azure_tenant_id
  - name: pg_ro_azure_client_id
  - name: pg_ro_azure_client_secret
{% endkong_config_table %}
<!--vale on-->

```

Thuis isn't rendering the description 

<img width="1008" height="605" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5523ba6b-c49d-4594-987f-56289d97014e" />

Reviewer: I'll rebase this and these will render.
